Hopefully you've got something
that looks a bit like this now.
So if we look in our layers list
you should have your sighting
points, the three polygons for
the protected areas, the Esri
standard base map, the
Hippogriff sightings table that
we plotted our points from and
hopefully you've added the
environments table as well.
Let's open up this environments
table to have a look at it.
So we can see in this table
we've got 3 columns, the first
one being our object ID and at
the moment our rows on in
chronological order.
So we can just click on the
heading for OID a few times just
to get these in chronological
order.
And now if we Scroll down we can
see all of our rows and we've
got 108 different rows.
The next column we have is the
unique key.
So if you can remember this is
the same column that we had for
our sighting points data.
We've got a GPS point for each
row, so each sighting has a
unique key for its GPS point.
And the third column we have is
the environment.
So we have the different
environments that the sightings
occurred in, like grassland,
secondary forest, primary
forest, village and farm.
So now let's take a look at the
table for our sighting points.
So right click and open
Attribute table and we can use
the QGIS tabs at the bottom of
our computer to open up the
environments table at the same
time.
So looking in the points table
we can just organise these again
so they're in chronological
order.
Just by clicking on the Object
ID column we can see we've got
these null rows at the top.
So let's get rid of these.
Now to do that we need to toggle
editing onto our tables.
So click the little pencil icon
and then we can select the first
row by clicking on the row
number.
Hold down our shift button and
select row number 7 and now this
will highlight all of these null
rows and then we can click the
bin button at the top of the
table to delete these null rows.
And now we just need to save our
edits.
So click on the save edits
button in the table and toggle
editing off by clicking on the
pencil icon.
So in this table we as we
remembered we can see the unique
key column so we have the GPS
points for each sighting in this
table as well.
So GPS point one in this table
is the same as GPS point one in
the environments table.
So for GPS point one we can see
where it occurred and we can see
that it was attracts sighting
and now we can also see that it
occurred in the environment
grassland.
So as this data is related, this
means we can join our
environment data to our sighting
points so that we have it all in
the same place.
To do that we're going to add a
join.
So close the tables, right click
on the sighting points layer and
go into its properties and now
we can go down to the joins tab
and we'll use this green plus
button to add a join.
So click on this and this will
bring up the window to put in
our parameters to run this join.
So our join layer is what table
we want to join to our sighting
points.
So this is going to be our
environments table which we've
already got in this box.
And then for the join field and
the Target Field
in here we want to put in the
columns which link our data
together so we can use the
unique ID column as both our
point data and environment table
have this.
So in these two boxes, we want
to put in the unique key column
and we've got some other boxes
that we can tick on and off
here, but we're not going to
worry about these apart from the
bottom one.
We can toggle it on to change
the name of the data that we're
joining.
So we can just call it
environment, we'll click OK,
we'll click Apply and OK again.
And now if we open up the
attribute table for our sighting
points and scroll along to the
right, we can see that we now
have our environments within
this table.
So we've got our GPS point
number one for example, which
was the sighting of tracks
occurring in the grassland.
So to actually save this data
into the layer, we need to
export the layer.
So we need to right click, go
into export and click save
features.
As for the format, we're going
to choose Geo package as this is
going to let us save our layer
into the Geo package that we
created and then we'll choose
where to save it by clicking on
the three little dots icon.
And in this window we can see
our Geo package.
So click on that and below we
can choose the name for our
layer so we can just call it Our
sighting environment points and
our coordinate reference system
is the same as what our points
were before.
So we can leave that how it is
and we don't need to worry about
the other options.
So we'll just click OK and now
in our layers list we can see
that we have a new layer and
this will have the joined data
saved into this layer.
So just remember to hit save to
save your progress.